people are just assuming themes or just
nitpicking on things about my life
because I'm not perfect and for some
reason they put me under that standard
that you know I can't contribute to any
suffering and death otherwise I'm
labeled as a hypocrite that's right
[ __ ]
please tell me I can eat chewy sprees
you're after your griddles
okay what is egg albumen my allowed to
sit on the couch oh no what is it
Mariana I I don't know for sure but I'm
very certain it's not leather not good
enough just stand there okay I'll never
be good
in this video I'm gonna deal with two
issues that for me are related question
of how we speak to people who agree with
veganism in principle but who are
themselves not vegan in practice the
example at the moment being discussed it
being uneasy on and he seems the name of
a comedian here on YouTube and a broader
question of how we deal with our fellow
human beings when we have genuinely
egregious ethical differences and I do
not think any scene is a great example
that for reasons that will become clear
pretty soon initia new position on this
issue
a couple years ago in the past was to
say that vegans were correct in
principle that he agreed with veganism
in principle that ethically veganism was
the right thing to do that ethically
veganism was superior to vegetarianism
and was a better option than being a
meat-eater he agreed with vegans in
principle but he himself was not vegan
in practice no I actually believe and
feel that is quite a strong position for
a person to adopt it requires that you
have the strength to in effect not
defend your convictions it requires that
you have the strength to just
acknowledge the imperfections and
contradictions in your own life and to
say look you guys are right it's too bad
I'm not one of you here's why and maybe
your reasons why aren't that great but
there's still your reasons they're
meaningful to you I have a lot of
sympathy for people in that situation I
had a job and my boss at that job this
is years ago he was in this sense vegan
and principled he agreed that vegans
were correct but he continued to eat
meat on a daily basis and you know I
talked about it with him a few different
points but there was certainly nothing I
could do I was an employee obviously I
was in a I was not in a position to to
order him around but also I don't think
on a human level it would have
accomplished much for me to kind of
dress him down to me to take the time to
explain to him just how morally inferior
I think
he is when he's had the strength of
character and detachment to admit that
he considers himself morally inferior
that he thinks that veganism is the
morally superior option he just doesn't
do it he just doesn't fall through he's
vegan in principle but not in practice
and in terms of new vegans there's
people who are just become vegan most of
them go through a period like that so
they're currently people use this word
Pro vegan I think we better say proto
vegan PR OTO proto vegan uh but you know
Ivan effects converted one of my Chinese
teachers here because where we speak
about veganism and animal rights in
Chinese and ecology and politics
and well this is how I practice the
language every day we try to talk about
things that I'm interested in write
essays and Chinese about things I'm
interested in um but I mean she said to
me that these discussions we've been
having and and things have been doing
the actually have had a big impact on
her and that she had sat down and talked
with her boyfriend about eventually
transitioning to a vegan diet and you
know her boyfriend was very surprised
and they talked about that and she's
told me all about her own parents her
parents are I would say somewhere in the
reduced Aryan camp or vaguely meet
avoiding Chinese people so you know what
I said to her it might surprise some of
you it might not depending on her well
you know me I said to her you know
partly of course did I hope she'll stick
with I said look don't beat yourself up
this might take you five years because
you have to unlearn everything your
grandmother taught you everything your
mother taught you and you have to learn
a whole new set of skills that pertain
to how you feed yourself how you clothe
yourself and here in terms of the
traditional role of womanhood maybe how
you feed and clothe others how you take
care of your whole family and really
you're not just rejecting
the traditions you've inherited directly
from your mother and your grandmother
you're throwing away more than a
thousand years of tradition and you're
starting from a blank piece of paper
like for example on my video where I
talk about why I forced my son to be
vegan I said that I feed my son better
than other parents that I know that I'm
doing a lot better than other parents is
what I said
and some people got triggered by that
some people got offended
for some reason it just really irks me
when people call me a hypocrite about my
lifestyle when I'm actually trying to do
something positive
most of us vegans we've gotta learn how
to boil beans from the internet we never
did that most of us you know we didn't
used to eat black rice sorry black rice
is good - black beans and white rice you
know we didn't used to know how to make
tofu or seitan or whatever it is that's
now a common part of your diet there's a
lot of new learning and you're very
likely to get that from a book or from
the internet not from your own mother if
you're the first person in your family
line to become vegan it's a big shift
and I said to her I would totally
respect her if for the next five years
she was still eating meat but she was in
this position of being vegan in
principle and not in practice anyway
that obviously that relates to the
particular person it's based on my
knowledge of her and her family
situation it would not surprise me if
she needed several years to make that
happen
it is a big deal and I can also see
emotionally my saying that to her
actually had had an impact on her and I
could see that emotionally she was
deeply troubled by the stuff she had
just learned about animal ethics of what
everyone say factory farming agriculture
all these issues led to veganism some of
them were things she had suspected or
thought about in the past but meeting me
and talking about veganism obviously
crystallized and brought together a
whole bunch of other concerns in her
life but from my perspective even if she
never becomes vegan it's still a win
you know agreeing with the idea of
veganism is itself something significant
especially given how incredibly marginal
and rare and just unheard of unknown
veganism has been in Western
civilization in the past hundred years
past thousand years what have you we're
crawling up from a pretty low point so I
do not think it's trivial and I do not
think it's meaningless that the
beginning of these discussions
several years ago a nisshin's position
already was ceding to veganism the
higher ground saying vegans are correct
etc
this war will face the supreme Pendelton
that military of all can provide now can
we really make this into an egregious
ethical difference you can you can you
can take any conflict and treat it that
way how can i encapsulate in mere words
my school for any military solution the
futility of modern warfare and the
hypocrisy by which contemporary
government applies one standard to
violence within the community and
another to violence perpetrated by one
community upon another i was speaking
the other day with a very elderly man
here who is a veteran of America's wars
in Vietnam Laos and Cambodia he was a
veteran in northeastern Thailand the
same plateau he was military bases that
I have actually visited in places I've
visited in addition to it being history
in politics that I have studied so
obviously it was somewhat interesting
for me to meet him and talk to him now
this conversation that we were actually
three people said Taylor is my him
myself and one elderly maybe sixty year
old American woman the American woman
was not a veteran she didn't have any
expertise wasn't involved and you know
at one point this guy told me basically
about a murder he participated in what
we could at best call an extrajudicial
killing while he was on duty there in
northeastern Thailand involved with Laos
Laos Cambodia Vietnam with that war with
that theater of operations now I
probably do not need to explain to you
that I'm morally opposed to murder this
particular type of murder is actually
something I have research to some sense
that I've read about let's say at least
and it's something I've talked about on
this YouTube channel before although a
long time ago the incongruous fact that
armies of occupation kill their own
allies they kill people not in the enemy
side only not only in combat but they
there ends up being a body count
for example talked about this with in
Okinawa Japan dead bodies turn up of
Americans killing their Japanese allies
of Americans killing other Americans etc
of course pregnant teenagers turn up and
prostitutes and there are all these
strange social and cultural effects
South Korea's a huge case study for this
to of having a large foreign Army of
Occupation on your land even if your
allies we're not talking about the
relationship between enemies but between
allies so the particular type of
incident he was talking about is
something I know about
I understand and you know obviously I
disapprove but this basically comes down
to know you talk about soldiers who are
not under orders who are not on the
battlefield soldiers in their own time
mostly on the basis of a rumor somebody
told them something bad they decided to
be Batman and cold and avenge something
that somebody told them it happened and
they murder people who are on their own
side and this I mean is more odious
because we are talking about white men
going and killing local Asian people and
they're you know they're Asian people
who are fighting on the American side so
this guy tells me this story and to make
matters worse the third person sitting
at the table I don't know I guess she's
the kind of person who gets turned on
watching horror movies or something she
reacted really positively and started
gushing about how you know she had
friends who fought in the same theatre
in Vietnam war and you know she really
enjoyed these kind of stories and she
used the word badass two or three times
to describe this this type of activity
now
this is an egregious ethical difference
I'm sitting down at a table with
somebody who has just talked me through
a murder he committed a murder he
doesn't regret a murder that I think he
is in a sense still proud of and the
other person the table not only thinks
the specific event is somehow justified
or glorious are good but thinks in
general this is badass and wonderful and
as part of the glory of the American
Empire now I could have stood up angrily
and shouted at them or insulted them I
could have responded in some kind of
very emotional way and I didn't and this
is this is really an egregious ethical
difference and
I mean look I'm old I'm used to dealing
with these kinds of problems some of you
are watching this who are younger really
need to think about what you would do in
a situation like this and again this is
a particular conflict I happen to have
researched I haven't have care about
been to those places I've met those
people I have heard directly you know
really tear-jerking stories of people
who were you know in the midst of
massacres of Americans you give the
massacres perpetrated by Americans
against you know Lao civilians you know
both on paper and face to face the
reality of that there are percussions of
that are things I've cared about and to
some extent seen firsthand obviously I'm
not old enough to have witnessed any of
the massacres myself I just say so this
is not hypothetical I remained
completely calm and somewhat laconic and
sarcastic and I pointed out in response
to this you know because this older
woman had just congratulated this guy as
if you know he's participating in this
so-called badass behavior was the most
wonderful thing I said to her you know
calmly but you know somewhat sneeringly
yeah well you know you can sit here on
your ass and use the word badass all you
want but you still lost the war okay a
country with a budget in the hundreds of
millions that murdered millions of
people that dropped more bombs on Laos
than they dropped on Germany during
World War two with all that guess what a
couple of peasant farmers with ak-47s
still won the war so you know you want
to sit here and boast about extra
curricular killings you did while you
were on base in northeastern Thailand
that's fine but you know you guys still
got your asses you in that conflict
empathy so it's resting Lee now this
this impacted the the older woman
negatively she caught the point that she
was boasting she was really glorying in
crimes against humanity and these were
crimes against humanity that were
between two very unequal sides you know
a third-world poverty-stricken country
like Laos versus the United States and
they were crimes against humanity that
didn't even get positive outcomes they
didn't they destroyed
democracy at the start of that conflict
Laos was a democracy which had a
parliament and the Communists were a
minority party in that kana the
Americans destroyed that and the end of
the war was a communist dictatorship
supposedly what Allan Dulles wanted to
avoid that's exactly what Alan Dahl was
created sorry the US side Allen Dulles
is one very important figure in making
those decisions um so she I don't know
react negatively but you know this
actually kept the opportunity for
dialogue open with the guy who was the
veteran and he went on to say quite a
number of interesting things that he did
have some kind of moral transformation
in the course of the war that when the
war was over I think he did six years of
service and then he joined one of the
protest groups veterans against the
Vietnam War and he was involved in from
his perspective some kind of political
struggle to meaningfully examine the
crimes against humanity that Americans
committed even though by his own account
he he participated in those crimes now I
do not know to what extent that's
hyperbole exaggeration [ __ ] I don't
know I have to take him at his word I
have to take it that just as he's been
forthcoming and sincere about actually
committing murder which again is not
battlefield this is not combat murder
that he's being sincere and talking
about the other side of his own ethical
reaction to the war and what he did
afterwards but of course it's it's
possible he's bullshitting me about
either once possibly [ __ ] about both
you know you don't know you sit down
with a complete stranger you hear this
kind of thing but I got to hear you know
this guy's nuanced perspective on the
world and he was also patient and
address he realized you know I got to
talk about mine I had actually visited
these places we got to talk about the
war for more than one angle um what
would it have accomplished if I just
told this guy that he's a he's a piece
of [ __ ] that he's the the ethical
difference between us is so egregious
that I just regard him as subhuman what
where does it go from there
even within the conversation you know I
let alone outside of the conversation
have this vegetarian meat oh no it has
egg whites I could donate it to home
shelter they need food right [ __ ]
homeless people better dead than chicken
tour truck what are you doing I'm
sitting in a massage chair made of
animal products I'm not totally sure but
I hope not your piece of [ __ ] okay you
know people on the internet think they
get a medal for calling someone a
hypocrite and you don't you know you can
call an easy an hypocrite you can call
this American War veteran a hypocrite
what do you get nothing now and what I
did instead was to engage in a kind of
long and nuanced conversation with this
guy and I admitted also many things
about myself my own imperfection that
don't claim to be an angel
you know to try to balance it and try to
make him feel a bit more comfortable but
obviously I am sincerely interested in
his perspective even if he is literally
someone who's guilty of war crimes or
crimes against humanity and I think I
think he perceives himself that way I
think you know at the end of that his
experience was very different but what
would it accomplish if I called my
former boss a hypocrite and a subhuman
what would it accomplish if I called and
ecn a hypocrite 'no subhuman day in and
day out I get called a hypocrite just
because I'm vegan and because people
hold me to this very crazy standard that
they probably don't even live up to you
know I think we're into a very difficult
balancing act which is between talking
about veganism as a matter of principle
and talking about veganism as a matter
of practice one of the main things in
ecn complains about is the difficulty of
reading food labels every time you go to
the grocery store I can give you a
totally pragmatic answer on that I can
say look the reality is you go to the
same grocery store again and again
you're looking at the same products
again and again so like when I was
living in Canada if I wanted a chocolate
bar I didn't have to read the labels of
every single chocolate bar of the
mainstream brands there were like two
that were vegan so I nina's look see if
those are there that's about it how many
times in a year does a new product
actually appear on that rack of
chocolate bars maybe not less than once
a year right but okay if there is a new
product be it like oh I wonder if there
vegan and I can read the label that's it
you know that's the reality we live with
is going back to the same store reading
the same labels there's a totally
pragmatic answer someone like Inez you
know send you they can't be vegan
because they can't be bothered to read
the labels but they're also the matters
of principle and actually it pays off to
be light-hearted about the the matters
of principle when you can be I remember
I went into a bakery at Baker I went
into repeatedly this is in Canada before
before I came with China and I had to
ask every time you know could you check
does this bread contain honey and you
know the last time I did it it happened
to be sort of the boss it was not doing
it was the second time she talked to me
she was either the owner of the managed
store and she said you know what we
should print up a list because every
time it would say they'd spend a long
time trying to figure out whether or not
the bread honey even though they made it
themselves that the minute that bakery
so you know what we should put up a list
of which breads contain honey which
breads contain dairy products and which
don't so we can you know so the staff
know so he does I said you know thank
you that's that's all I can ask for you
know it was totally positive thing
remember one of the times that I went in
the same bakery I said oh you know do
you mind can you check if the at the
bread has honey and the girl behind the
counter I wasn't gonna lecture but she
said oh you know you're vegan and right
away I could see on her face she's
already seen the slaughterhouse videos
she's already thought she's not vegan
but she's thought about it and and I
said to her in just a humorous way I
said yeah you know save the bees you
know it's a matter of principle I guess
and you know we had this very humble
down-to-earth conversation about the
fact that you know there's a sense in
which I know refusing to buy bread made
with honey doesn't make any difference
in the world and yet it is a matter of
principle it makes a difference to me it
makes a difference for Who I am and in
this one bakery my mentioning it every
time I went in was probably six times
though it did make a small difference in
that bakery because they just got
organized to make a list of which breads
had honey and which ones didn't which
before they didn't know
you can't always be light-hearted about
questions in principle I was sitting
down at the table with somebody who
confessed to me that he was a murderer a
murderer I mean this is you know say
this is at best an extrajudicial killing
he was talking about to me as your life
goes on you may have that experience or
you may never I don't know some of you
just play video games and don't get out
and get don't get out and talk to that
many people get out and talk to some
gray-haired veterans you'll hear some
you'll hear some things that you you
want won't learn from any video game
kids you know when you reach out to
people when they reach out to you if you
can be light-hearted about matters of
principle if you can be pragmatic and
down-to-earth in talking to talking to
the practical problems like reading
agreement labels then do it because you
know short term and long term if you
really think through what's the point of
reacting to an egregious ethical
difference in a in a hostile way most of
the time it's going to be
counterproductive but hey not all the
time and you know your feelings matter
too and if you really are upset if you
really are breaking down emotionally
because of something somebody said
whether it's about the Vietnam War or
about the slaughterhouse I would be the
last person in the world to ask you to
suffocate that it is completely
ridiculous for vegans to engage with
this issue as if it were only the
feelings of meat-eaters that matter you
know and we ridiculous for me to engage
in that issue of the Vietnam War as if
it were only the feelings of American
veterans that matter you know there are
Vietnamese veterans there allow veterans
and there were piles of dead bodies and
piles of shrapnel from all those bombs
that dropped and those things matter too
even if they're voiceless and that's
always the the ridiculous thing about
veganism in the same way that the dead
have no voice at the table when we sit
down and talk about yesterday's war you
know every day the millions of animals
that are dying they have no voice they
have no representation of that table
when we sat down and talked about in an
overly hypothet
away these questions of animal ethics
ecology and veganism